
- 目前任务
	- 1. 佳玉数据，寻求gene pattern or program
	- 2. 调研IRES

## 调研IRES

准备收集5utr数据
调研5utr序列特征，读文献



## UTRdb 2.0: a comprehensive, expert curated catalog of eukaryotic mRNAs untranslated regions

补充研究utr意义：单独的mRNA水平不能预测体内蛋白质的浓度或活性
utr作用除了稳定mrna和促进翻译，还体现在核质转运，定位这两方面

UTRdb entries boast a comprehensive collection of annotations, including: regulatory elements collected in Rfam (20), 
conserved elements in PhastCons (21), 
ADAR-mediated RNA editing(A-I=G) (22) 
and m6A modifications (23).
In addition, upstream open reading frames, complemented with mass spectrometry proteomic data (when available) (24), and 
Internal Ribosome entry sites (25) are provided for 5′ UTRs


 rich set of functional annotations for UTRs. These include, but are not limited to: 6 306 354 evolutionarily conserved elements, 359 503 A-to-I RNA editing events, 49 040 m6A modifications and 58 553 426 nucleotide variants. 

## Annotation of uORFs in the OMIM genes allows to reveal pathogenic variants in 5′UTRs
对来自OMIM数据库的人类疾病相关基因的上游翻译起始位点(TISs)进行了手工注释，并发现了约470个与uorf相关的TISs

没有通用的算法来分析和解释5'UTR变异

The prediction of the Kozak-sequence score was carried out with the AltTranslationInitiation tool (https://github.com/ewallace/AltTranslationInitiation) using nucleotide frequencies from Grzegorski et al. 

## Ribo-uORF: a comprehensive data resource of upstream open reading frames (uORFs) based on ribosome profiling



 developed mRNAbrowse to visualize items such as 
 uORFs, 
 cis-regulatory elements,
  genetic variations, eQTLs
  , GWAS-based associations, 
  RNA modifications, and 
  RNA editing


The uORF information retrieved from TISdb (v1.0) (39), sORFs.org (v2.0) (40), uORFdb (38) and Phase I consensus sets of Ribo-seq ORFs from GENCODE (50) was integrated into Ribo-uORF. T

o investigate relationships between uORFs and disease-related SNVs and SNPs, we downloaded cancer somatic mutations from the COSMIC v93 database (51). The human disease/trait-associated SNPs were curated from published GWAS data provided by the NHGRI GWAS Catalog (all associations v1.0) (52). Cis- and trans-eQTLs in 33 cancer types were downloaded from PancanQTL (20220416) (53). eQTLs from GTEx v8 (54) were also included in Ribo-uORF. 

In addition, we collected datasets from REDIportal v2.0 (55) for RNA editing; RMBase v2.0 (56), Met-DB v2.0 (57), REPIC v1.0 (58) and m6A_Atalas v1.0 (59) for RNA modifications; dbSNP v155 (60) and ClinVar (clinvar_20220416) (61) for genetic variations; POSTAR v2 (62) and ENCODE (20220423) (63) for RBP binding sites; 

Fantom v5 (64) for alternative tag start sites; RNA secondary structures by DMS-seq from RASP v1.0 (65); 

and phastCons (66) and phylop (67) for sequence conservation. 
Signal peptide and cleavage sites were analyzed using SignalP v4.1 with default parameters (68). 
The G-quadruplex propensity of sequences was predicted using G4Hunter (released on 8 April 2020) (69) with default parameters, and IRESfinder v1.1.0 with default parameters was used to identify putative IRESs (internal ribosome entry sites) (70). Annotation of Kozak consensus sequences was based on a motif search using an in-house developed Perl program (strong: [AG]NNAUGG; moderate: [AG]NNAUGN or NNNAUGG; weak: NNNAUGN).


